chore(koda): initialize Koda (#48)
OutSystems/cordova-outsystems-secure-sqlite-bundle: CONTRIBUTING.md

npm install
```

## Project Structure

- `www/` - JavaScript initialization code that wraps SQLCipher with secure key management
- `plugin.xml` - Cordova plugin manifest defining dependencies and platform support
- `build-actions/` - Build actions for ODC/Capacitor apps and Capacitor hooks
- `CHANGELOG.md` - Version history following Keep a Changelog format

## Development Workflow

### Branch Naming

Use descriptive branch names with prefix patterns:

- `feat/TICKET-ID/description` - New features
- `fix/TICKET-ID/description` - Bug fixes
- `chore/TICKET-ID/description` - Maintenance tasks

Examples from this repository: `feat/RMET-4293/update-sqlite`, `fix/RMET-4780/missing-strings-xml`

### Commit Messages

Follow conventional commit format with ticket references:

```
<type>(<scope>): <description>

Examples:
feat: update sqlite to 3.50.4
fix(ios): update to version 2.6.8-OS29 of cordova-plugin-secure-storage
chore(release): set version to 2.2.7
```

Common types: `feat`, `fix`, `chore`, `test`, `docs`

Common scopes: `ios`, `android`, `release`

Check recent commits: `git log --oneline -20`

### Testing

Manual testing is required across platforms:

> 1. Test plugin installation in a Cordova app: `cordova plugin add file:///path/to/plugin`

Reviewer: If this is for Claude, I guess, although I doubt claude will create its own full-fedged cordova apps to test (unless specifically asked to).

If it's for OutSystems contributors, it'd be easy to create their own application for testing Ciphered Local Storage Plugin - Because our app isn't publicly distributed in Forge.

Maybe we can just mention that people should test with an OutSystems app if possible and leave it at that?

   - Migration from older plugin versions

### Code Standards

- JavaScript code follows standard formatting conventions
- Maintain compatibility with bundled plugin APIs (SQLCipher Adapter, Secure Storage)
- Console logging uses descriptive prefixes: `"SecureSQLiteBundle: ..."`
- Error handling must account for platform-specific security requirements

## Plugin Dependencies

This plugin depends on forked OutSystems versions of:

- `cordova-sqlcipher-adapter` - Encrypted SQLite database access
- `cordova-plugin-secure-storage` - Secure key storage in platform keystores
- `outsystems-plugin-disable-backup` - Disables Android auto-backup

Update dependencies in `plugin.xml` when newer versions are available. Version format: `X.Y.Z-OSnn` where `OSnn` is the OutSystems fork version.

## Pull Request Process

1. Update `CHANGELOG.md` under `[Unreleased]` section following Keep a Changelog format
2. Ensure changes don't break existing database compatibility
3. Test on both Android and iOS before submitting
4. Reference JIRA ticket in PR title and description
5. Code owners (@OutSystems/rd-mobile-ecosystem) will review PRs

## Release Process

> 1. Update version in `package.json` and `plugin.xml`
> 2. Move unreleased changes in `CHANGELOG.md` to new version section with date
> 3. Create commit: `chore(release): set version to X.Y.Z`
> 4. Tag release: `git tag X.Y.Z`
> 5. Push with tags: `git push origin master --tags`

Reviewer: This setup won't work because we can't push straight to main, should be something like (even though our team usually makes release-specific updates in a fix/feature PR because we know that version will only have that, this is better suited for contributing guide) 

```suggestion
1. Create a separate branch from `main`.
2. Update version in `package.json` and `plugin.xml`
3. Move unreleased changes in `CHANGELOG.md` to new version section with date
4. Create commit: `chore(release): set version to X.Y.Z`
5. Open PR to main. 
6. After PR is approved and merged, Create a GitHub release for X.Y.Z, adding the changelog entries as release notes.
```

Versioning follows [Semantic Versioning](http://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## Useful Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `cordova plugin add .` | Install plugin locally for testing |
| `npm run capacitor:update:before` | Run Capacitor hook to update strings.xml |
| `git log --oneline -20` | View recent commit patterns |
| `cordova platform add android` | Add Android platform for testing |

> | `cordova platform add ios` | Add iOS platform for testing |

Reviewer: The same comment I made for commands also applies here

## Platform-Specific Notes

### Android

- Auto-backup is disabled via build action to prevent keystore conflicts
- Requires device lock screen (PIN/pattern) for secure key storage
- Removing device lock screen renders encrypted databases unreadable

### iOS

- Uses iOS Keychain for secure key storage
- Supports biometric authentication when configured
- Protected data availability must be checked on app launch (iOS 15+)

### Capacitor

Build actions in `build-actions/` directory provide Cordova hook equivalents:
- `disable_auto_backups.yaml` - Android manifest modification
- `update_strings_for_keystore.js` - Capacitor hook for KeyStore plugin requirements

See [build-actions/README.md](./build-actions/README.md) for ODC integration details.

## Known Limitations

Before contributing, be aware of documented limitations:
- Android devices require PIN/lock screen configuration
- Existing unencrypted databases cannot be migrated automatically
- Auto-backup must remain disabled on Android

## Support

> This plugin is officially supported by OutSystems. For questions or issues, contact @OutSystems/rd-mobile-ecosystem or file an issue on GitHub.

Reviewer: I believe in general for OutSystems plugins we'll want people to go through official OutSystems support channels rather than in GitHub, so maybe this could be changed, unless you disagree?
